The very first thing we're
going to draw is the links,
because the links we want to
be all the way at the bottom.
So let's go and make our link =
d3.select.svg.selectAll of the links.
And in this case,
we're going to use a line element.
We're going to pass in our data, and
our data is our graph object and
the links array within
the graphs of graph.links.
And then for the key function,
we're going to pass back
the id on each of these links.
Use our join to create the lines.
And actually,
what I need to do is I think actually,
I'm going to say select all of the links,
select all the elements with class link.
And then once we've created and updated,
created the line element then that we're
going to say let's have that as class
is link is true.
And then we're going
to have our attribute,
we wanna stroke that and a light gray,
let's say, and let's give opacity of 0.5.
So that because there'll be a lot
of lines, a lot of links and
that you can kind of see them even
when they're overlapping each other.
And now if we inspect the SVG,
what we should see is
all of the lines created,
but not yet showing up.
It's not being rendered yet
because we haven't
used D3 force layout to calculate
the positions of the nodes yet.
So let's go ahead and create our flowers.
And for the sake of time, I'm just gonna
go back to our previous notebook and
just like grab our
flowers code from there.
And copy and paste that,
sorry for all the scroll.
Okay, so I'm going to grab
our flowers code, const flower.
And actually, I don't need to
do any of the animation, so
I'm gonna just take that part out.
So thus I don't need the update and
exit either.
I don't need the transition.
And what we should see
now with our flowers
created is we should
see all of the flowers,
all the way, Gosh!
Ooh, svg.selectAll, yes.
Copied and pasted too blindly.
Okay, so d3.select, and and we're not
supposed to be citing the attribute.
So we've copied and pasted the flowers
from our previous notebook,
took out all of the animation things and
took out the translate positioning for
now.
So we should be able to
see all of our flowers,
perfect, all the way up
here is clustered up at 00,
which is the default because we
haven't set the positions yet.
And then, Let's finally go ahead and
make our genres.
And so for our genres,
we're gonna call that genres
= d3.select(svg).
And we're going to call that,
let's select all of the elements
that have the class genre on it.
We're going to bind the data.
And actually, another thing I have done
incorrectly is for the flowers, and
you want to be binding the graph.nodes,
and we're going to use
a key function d.title.
So that should be the final change
we need to do on the flowers.
And then we are going to do,
The data we want is graph.genres.
And for the key function,
let's use the label, Join.
We're going to make these texts elements,
and
let's make sure to add
the class genre on there.
So that our selection matches true.
And let's put the text, and
that should be the title.
And let's just go ahead and
center that text.
So now, we should have all of
the elements we need rendered.
And then this is where we're
going to use force simulation.
And so let's go and
call it const simulation.
And we're going to call
d3.forceSimulation.
And we're going to pass in nodes.
And the nodes that we want is
we actually want the combination
of the flower nodes and
the genres together as
the nodes that we use to
calculate all of the positions.
So let's go ahead and
use low dash to union our
array of nodes, and our array of genres.
We're going to pass that
into the force simulation.
We're going to tell the force simulation
that one of the first forces that
we want to apply is the link,
d3.forceLink.
So we want to have an attractive
force between any nodes that
are linked to each other.
So that's passing graph.links.
And again because graph.links,
its source and target are already
directly referencing our node objects.
We don't need to specify any sort
of identifier to connect them
to the .id function that we
saw earlier in the example.
And I'm going to say that
I want to avoid collision
between each of the each of the nodes.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to say forceCollide.
And I'm going to pass in radius, and
that radius will be dependent
on the size of my node.
So for my flowers,
I want it to be I think d.scale.
And then remember that our
d.scale is dependent on our
petals being I think 100 byte,
100 pixels in size.
And then finally, I want to center our,
Nodes on the midpoint of
our SVG containers, so
that's width divided by 2.
And for the height I'm actually
using width divided by 2.
So in that case the center
would be width divided by 4.
And a small note about collide,
so I'm using collide and
the other example I gave
is force many body, so
the negative or positive charge.
And I find oftentimes that
now I use them together,
they kinda like end up
doing very similar things.
So I usually just use one or the other.
And in this case, I chose to use collide.
And then finally, we're going to say
what should happen on each tick.
So on each tick the positions update, so
then we want to go and
update the positions for our flowers.
And so let's transform translate that with
the newly calculated x,y positions.
And this again is a reason why the
original data array is directly mutated.
Because we bound that original
data array to our DOM elements,
and then we need to be able
to access those DOM elements,
the bound data on those
DOM elements on each tick.
And then we expect the x,y positions
to be in that bound data element.
And that's why it gets mutated directly.
Do the same thing for the genres.
And then finally, for our links, for
our line elements, the attributes are x1.
And so
x1 should be the x position of the source.
And I'm just gonna copy and
paste, These over.
So that's y1, x2, y2, source.y,
then target.x, and target.y.
And if we've done this part correctly,
a big if, then if we run this up here,
It should hopefully be,
there we go, yeah.
I'm still struggling a little bit
to get to the final layout at once.
And there's definitely settings,
and toggles, and levers,
that we can pull to get it to
arrive to an optimal layout faster.
But for the purposes of this exercise,
I think we've gotten it to a good point.
And if we filter the R movies back in,
then we can see that
it's updating correctly.
Yeah, so there we go.
[LAUGH] We got the, wait,
no, the genres are not
being, The genre texts are not showing up.
So let me go ahead and debug that
really quickly, hopefully quickly.
selectAll genres, classed('genre', true),
join( 'text'), d.label, yes,
label, we want it label
And again,
if you weren't able to get all of
the code because my laptop is struggling,
then you can find the solution to
all of the code in the other cell.